Re-enforcement learning and OpenAI are widely used for developing various Gaming Bots. But GTA V was removed from the Universe of OpenAI without any explanation. The excitement of developing self-driving AI bot kept me searching for the various methods I can implement. At first, I came up with an idea to grab the screen of the game using OpenCV which I can feed directly to find the Lanes on the roads itself. I also made a Region of Interest on which we can focus to find the Lanes. I developed an Algorithm in which it tries to stay on the middle of the road using the slopes of the two Lanes of the road. But this method failed because OpenCV was running on CPU and we were getting around 10 frames per second when finding Lanes. Several times it was failing to draw the Lanes which made him go off-road and unable to come back to the Road. Since, the actual game was running on 60+ fps it was difficult for him to cope up with different Lanes and curves of the roads.
After getting unsatisfactory results, I searched the methods to develop a Convolutional neural network which can learn to find the lanes on the road and give us a better frames per second output. It should also drive as fast as possible by avoiding obstacles like people, buildings and other vehicles. The bot should work on each frame of the grabbed screen of the gameplay and decide the key inputs based on that frame itself. After searching a lot, I found AlexNet can be used as a model to develop out bot. I provided our model with images from each frame of resolution 80 by 60. I gave my whole algorithm only three keys to work on which were: - ‘W’ for forward, ‘A’ for left and ‘D’ for right. So, bot can predict which to press according to the situation of each frame. I collected the training data by driving myself for 5-6 hours in-game. I tried to stay on proper lanes of the roads and avoid obstacles so that our Neural network also learn those behaviours. Then I tested my bot using the developed model which ran fine. But I wanted to improve more so I included another model know as Google’s Inception V3. I also change the image resolution to 320 by 180 so that it can preserve the 16:9 aspect ratio and increased the Convolutional layers and fully connected layers. The accuracy was improved by including the colours like RGB (Red, Green, Blue) of each frame.
Then again, I provided the training data of 12 hours of gameplay which further improved the decision
making of our AI bot. After training the model for 5 days using training data of worth 30gb I tested the developed model. I observed that it was able to drive as fast as possible while avoiding the obstacles like people on the roads, building, poles and other vehicles. It can drive well even in various situations like Rain, Fog and at Night.
